The Italian luxury brand Dolce & Gabbana has apologised for racist-tinged insults that touched off a growing boycott in China and left the company struggling to return its products to store shelves and e-commerce sites.
But it was unclear whether the contrition will be enough to stem the punishment and backlash doled out across China over the past week.
Some Dolce & Gabbana stores in Beijing were temporarily shut, and Chinese students in Italy held a small protest in front of the flagship store in Milan, according to Chinese reports.
Earlier this week, a lavish Shanghai fashion show, which had been months in the making, was cancelled after a leaked online conversation showed co-founder Stefano Gabbana using several faeces emoji and disparaging vocabulary to describe China - the world's largest market for luxury items.

In a span of five remarkable days, the Milan fashion house swung from preparing a historic Shanghai extravaganza - billed as a no-expense-spared tribute to Chinese culture and the biggest runway event in label history - to pleading for forgiveness, its reputation shredded in a country that accounts for more than a third of luxury spending worldwide.
"Our families have always taught us to respect the various cultures in all the world, and that's why we want to ask for your forgiveness," co-founder Domenico Dolce said in a video apology on Friday with his partner, Gabbana. "We will never forget this experience and lesson, and this sort of thing will never happen again."
The mea culpa capped a topsy-turvy week that started with the company promoting its "Great Show" in Shanghai, an hour-long event with more than 300 looks, 100 models and 1500 guests, with a puerile video featuring a Chinese model struggling to eat spaghetti and a large pastry with chopsticks.
After the video was widely criticised in China as insulting, a well-known fashion blogger leaked an Instagram conversation with Gabbana in which the designer fumed about the criticism, referred to China using several poo emoji and then blurted out: "China Ignorant Dirty Smelling Mafia." (Gabbana later claimed he was hacked.)
With models, event staff and celebrity guests bailing hours before the event and calling for a boycott, the label's Great Show was in tatters before it started on Wednesday.
By Friday, so was the brand's reputation. Numerous e-commerce sites including Alibaba and JD.com, the country's two biggest platforms, removed the brand's products. As did Lane Crawford, a leading luxury department store in China, at least one duty-free shop and the US-based e-commerce site Net-a-Porter.
"We believe that brands need to be aware of the cultural implications of their actions and understand the potential backlash when customers feel their values have been disrespected," Lane Crawford president Andrew Keith said in a statement on Friday.
"Customers have been returning Dolce & Gabbana products to our stores. With respect to our customers, we have taken the decision to remove the brand from all stores in mainland China, online and in Hong Kong."
