The principal and president of St. Michael's College School have both resigned amid allegations of assault and sexual assault between students, according to a statement issued by the private, all-boys' school Thursday afternoon. 
Principal Greg Reeves and Father Jefferson Thompson, school president, stepped down to allow the Roman Catholic school to move "forward without distractions and allow it to focus on healing and change after the horrific events," the board of directors of St. Michael's said in the statement.
"Greg Reeves and Fr. Thompson have always put the welfare, education and formation of our students first ¡ª and they do so once again today," board chair Michael Forsayeth said.
"This courageous decision allows us to move forward with our goals: understanding how these events could have occurred, regaining the trust of our community and bringing cultural change to our school."
Bill Dunphy, who graduated from St. Michael's 50 years ago, told CBC News the decision is a "symbolic action" and shows that the board of the prestigious school "really wants to send a signal that they're looking for decisive action."
Other alumni, who accused the school of having a culture of "toxic masculinity" and called for reform, say the resignations give the school time to address underlying issues in its classrooms. 
"I'm not at all surprised to see it ending this way, or at least moving along in this direction," said alumnus Jean-Paul Bedard, a former member of the football team who said he experienced sexual violence during hazing incidents at St. Michael's 35 years ago. 
VideoSt. Michael's alumnus calls for reform at prestigious private school
"This definitely doesn't fix the problem, but this allows a potential solution to come through." 
Alumnus Adam Boni, who graduated in 1987, echoed this and noted it's an important step in transparency.
"That change allows the school to move on with fresh blood at the helm: new vision and purpose," he said. 

Earlier this week, police laid criminal charges against six students in connection with a gang sexual assault investigation. 
Police are investigating six cases that involve students of the school, which teaches Grades 7 to 12. Some of the incidents were captured on video and shared online. Police and the school have said two of the six cases involve sexual assault.
St. Michael's also expelled eight students in connection with the allegations. It's unclear if any of the eight are among those who have been charged.