Reeves came under fire over allegedly waiting nearly 48 hours to notify police about the videos, a delay he attributed to ensuring a victim of a videotaped assault was able to notify his parents.
Calls for both Thompson and Reeves to step down began in the days after the scandal broke, from both community members and parents of students.
¡°This administration is too arrogant to accept any responsibility for what has happened,¡± one parent, who asked not to be named, told the Toronto Sun.
¡°This is all about protecting the brand and the school. It¡¯s big money.¡±
On Monday, six students were charged by Toronto police ¡ª each facing charges of assault, gang sexual assault, and sexual assault with a weapon in connection with perhaps the most notorious of the numerous videos under police investigation ¡ª allegedly depicting a violent hazing ritual by the school¡¯s junior football team involving a boy being sexually assaulted with a broom handle.
Other videos found circulating online reportedly involve a student in his underwear being assaulted in a washroom sink, and another police say involved an assault with a belt.
St. Mikes has announced the launch of an ¡°independent investigation¡± ¡ª aside from the one being conducted by police ¡ª into ¡°underlying attitudes and behaviours inconsistent with its cultures and values.¡±The president and principal of beleaguered St. Michael¡¯s College School have resigned as police continue their investigation into allegations of a physical and sexual abuse at the prestigious educational institution.
In a statement released Thursday night, the board of directors announced principal Greg Reeves and the school¡¯s president, Father Jefferson Thompson, had stepped down.
The resignations came in the wake of numerous allegations of sexual and physical abuse by students at the school, many of which were recorded on video and widely shared over social media.
In the statement, the two chose to resign out of a ¡°shared desire to move the school forward without distractions, and allow it to focus on healing and change.¡±
